MAP
===

The map would consist of:
  - "a set of ordered tiles" (for each coordinate/pos). The tiles have a certain
    tile type specified in some config files (outside the map).
  - "a set of trigger region names the coordinate is a member off"
    (for each coordinate/pos)
  - triggers specified before in some sort of scripting language
  - general settings (maps should be able to overwrite/change unit and other
    properties (e.g. certain aftermath/RedAlert mission change unit settings
    for certain maps)
  - campaign infos?



TILES
=====

Maybe the name tile is a bit confusing/wrong. I actually used it for a
basic 24x24 image. But for the game the image is not important, all it
should know for how to handle a tile is what type it is (of course the name
should be "queryable" too, but I speak about the properties of tiles now).
So one needs to specify the type for each tile.

Units and buildings already have their type, which is either unit/building
or more specific like infantry,tank,ship,sub,heli,plain,etc.
The other tiles have one of the below types (e.g. Clear, Ore):

I call a coordinate a (x,y) value of a map position (or pos=x+y*width).
A coordinate contains tiles (ordered: there is a top and bottom (basic) tile)
and an information about trigger regions it belongs too.


Basic tiles:
------------

Clear (default)
  - smudge damage
Water
  - nothing
Road (is this really basic or on top of clear?)
  - smudge damage
[ - destroyable?
  - buildable? (=> then it would be extended) ]
Rock
  - nothing
River
  - nothing
Rough
  - nothing
Beach
  - smudge damage


Extended tiles:
---------------
Every extended tiles lies on a basic tile, for certain extended tiles were
originally basic tiles (bridge tile), we just set a default tile then (river).

Mine
  - changes surrounding tiles if possible after some time has ellapsed (ore
    growth)
Ore
  - ore count == damage?
Tree (?)
  - burn damage?
  - destroyable
Bridge (only one tile of the bridge)
  - basic tile: river
  - smudge damage
  - destroyable? repairable? (rather not as we would need to have sthg like
    bridge_not_destroyed and bridge_destroyed for land units and sea units)
  - changes surrounding tiles if destroyed/damaged
Dungeon (basic tile?)
  - change: not passable by air units
  - change: image gets a shadow alpha map (looks darker)


Everything is a tile? (as in "Everything is a set." ;)
-------------------------------------------------------
[ Maybe tiles shouldn't be able to move (unit, weapon).
  On the other hand we'd like to threat certain tiles like buildings
  (bridge tiles) etc. ]

Unit (infantry, tank, ship, subs, plain, heli)
Building
Weapon (e.g. land mine, v2, etc)
REST (ice cap, crates, wall???)



Mixed notes:
------------

The order of the tiles specifies what should be drawn first (of course).
So one might want to create a function that inserts a tile at specific
coordinate. Most time time it will be inserted on top. Same thing for
removing...

Depending on the damage we have different actions. Examples:
  - bigger smudge marks for damaged smudge tiles...
  - Ore changes image if the "health" is lower (up to 4 times) and vannishes
    at the end (destroyed)
  - Same for tree
  - Bridge changes the images of itself and the tiles around it
    if destroyed...

Maybe it's really better to base the movement speed on the tile. The basic
tile then have a fixed movement value (percentage) for a wheel type:
  building
  water building,
  foot (default infantry)
  track
  wheel (default tanks)
  float (default ship, subs)
  air (default plain, heli) 

The extended tiles may either modify the value or set it (*0.9, =0, -30?).

Certain tiles may create trigger regions around them automatically (example:
the bridge tile might want to create a numbered __bridge_xy region around
itself).

The map should contain the trigger information too of course (in some
scripting language).

A unit should be able to attack any tile, not just units/buildings.
If a weapon has spread dammage it will inflict surrounding tiles too for
example. Or: There might be a mine hidden in the tile.

Units normaly are below trees/etc, but this should be changeable in some way
as air units fly over trees.

This design should allow multiple units/buildings on one coordinate (I
think).


Ok, I can't write drafts. But it might give some ideas at least... ;)
